##Blue Team: Summary of Operations

#Table of Contents
- Network Topology
- Description of Targets
- Monitoring the Targets
- Patterns of Traffic & Behavior

###Network Topology
The following machines were identified on the network:
Azure VM
Operating System: Microsoft Azure 
Purpose: Host 
IP Address: 192.168.1.100:5601/
 Kali
Operating System: Kali Linux
Purpose: Use to attack other machines.
IP Address: 192.168.1.90
Capstone
Operating System: Ubantu
Purpose: Testing target machine that will forward logs to ELK machine. 
IP Address: 192.168.1.105
ELK
Operating System: Linux
Purpose: Seting Kibana Alert
IP Address:192.158.1.100
Target 1
Operating System: Debian/Linux 
Purpose: Target machine for the final project.
IP Address: 192.168.1.100
Target 2
Operating System: Debian
Purpose:Target machine for the final project.
IP Address: 192.168.1.115

Description of Targets
The target of this attack was: Target 1 (192.168.1.110).
Target 1 is an Apache web server and has SSH enabled, so ports 80 and 22 are possible ports of entry for attackers. As such, the following alerts have been implemented:
Monitoring the Targets
Traffic to these services should be carefully monitored. To this end, we have implemented the alerts below:
Excessive HTTP Errors
Excessive HTTP Errors is implemented as follows:
Metric: Metricbeat
Threshold: Status code above 400 more than 5 times in the past minute. 
Vulnerability Mitigated: wpscan bruteforce
Reliability: High reliability.
HTTP Request Size Monitor
HTTP Request Size Monitor is implemented as follows:
Metric: Metricbeat
Threshold: http.request.bytes are over 3500
Vulnerability Mitigated: Monitor a The content-length header gives the size (in bytes) of the response body.
Reliability: Medium reliability.
CPU Usage Monitor
CPU Usage Monitor is implemented as follows:
Metric: Metricbeat
Threshold: max system.process.cpu.total.pct is above 0.5 
Vulnerability Mitigated: privilege escalation/ consistent system usage.
Reliability: High reliability.
SSH activity monitor
SSH activity monitor is activity on target1/server is implemented as follows:
Metric: filebeat
Threshold:  when count Grouped over top 5 ‘system.auth.ssh.event is above 0 for last 5 seconds
Vulnerability Mitigated: Unknown individuals that successful SSH into server.
Reliability: Medium reliability.
Command Line Process Monitor
Command Line Process Monitor is implemented as follows:
Metric: metricbeat
Threshold: When Count() GROUPED OVER Top 10 ‘process.comman_line’ IS ABOVE 5 FOR THE LAST 5 minutes
Vulnerability Mitigated: Privilege escalation 
Reliability: medium reliability.
ICMP request Code monitor
ICMP Request Code implemented as follows:
Metric: packetbeat
Threshold: when count() GROUPED OVER top 100 ‘icmp.request.code’ IS ABOVE 10 5FOR THE LAST 3 minutes
Vulnerability Mitigated: NMAP/vulnerability scans using icmp
Reliability: medium reliability.
Suggestions for Going Further (Optional)
Each alert above pertains to a specific vulnerability/exploit. Recall that alerts only detect malicious behavior, but do not stop it. For each vulnerability/exploit identified by the alerts above, suggest a patch. E.g., implementing a blocklist is an effective tactic against brute-force attacks. It is not necessary to explain how to implement each patch.
The logs and alerts generated during the assessment suggest that this network is susceptible to several active threats, identified by the alerts above. In addition to watching for occurrences of such threats, the network should be hardened against them. The Blue Team suggests that IT implement the fixes below to protect the network:
Vulnerability 1
Patch: TODO: E.g., install special-security-package with apt-get
Why It Works: TODO: E.g., special-security-package scans the system for viruses every day
Vulnerability 2
Patch: TODO: E.g., install special-security-package with apt-get
Why It Works: TODO: E.g., special-security-package scans the system for viruses every day
Vulnerability 3
Patch: TODO: E.g., install special-security-package with apt-get
Why It Works: TODO: E.g., special-security-package scans the system for viruses every day

